ADAPTED FROM THE NOVEL ZHU YU
BY TUAN ZI LAI XI ON JJWXC.NET
MANUAL OF THE BEDCHAMBER ARTS
I don't need this.
He's hurt like that.
We won't be needing it.
Soon enough, you will.
Back to the bridal chamber.
Go on.
MARRIAGE
Wait.
Sorry.
I'm used to living alone.
I keep forgetting there's a man here now.
Come in.
-Let me help.
-No need.
I can manage.
Manage what?
You're impossible.
Is it that hard
to let me help you with the medicine?
These wounds keep reopening.
Do you know how much that costs?
How much you're hurting yourself?
Men and women shouldn't touch freely.
What do you mean touch?
The day Song Yan came making trouble,
didn't we already…
touch?
That wasn't that kind of touch.
Then, when I carried you out of the snow,
that counted, didn't it?
-It did.
-Then what's the difference?
Relax.
I don't have
any improper thoughts about you.
With you covered in wounds like this,
even if I did, what good would it do?
Fan Changyu, why would you say that?
This medicine doesn't…
doesn't need that much.
Too much?
Mr. Zhao uses about this much.
New medicine?
Why didn't you tell me?
It's fine.
Just wrap it properly.
These scars…
Are they from escorting caravans?
I didn't even notice them
when I was changing your clothes.
It's nothing.
I kept you away because I didn't want
these scars to frighten you.
Hold still. I'm almost done.
Other escorts rely on skill.
You rely on sheer stubborn luck.
Don't risk your life like that again.
Worst comes to worst,
I'll work harder.
Slaughter more pigs to feed you.
I'll go sleep downstairs with Ning.
No need.
Later,
I'll sleep in the main hall.
All right.
I'll bring you a basin of water.
Wipe yourself down.
I'll take the wedding robe downstairs.
MANUAL OF THE BEDCHAMBER ARTS
Why are you hiding this sort of thing?
-That's not--
-I thought you were resting properly.
Who would have thought?
I'll overlook it this time.
I'll throw this filth away.
Don't look at it again.
How mortifying!
What's that?
Get back.
Careful. Don't get spotted.
She's coming down.
See? I told you.
On their wedding night, sleeping apart.
That live-in marriage has to be fake.
Honey, you're smart.
That wretched Fan Changyu
thinks she can fool the authorities
and keep the house for herself.
Look more carefully.
I am looking carefully.
I told you to look inside carefully,
not stare at that!
Over there. Watch that side.
Honey, hold on.
She went back in with a basin of water.
That's not sleeping apart.
Don't rush it. Keep watching.
What is it?
My uncle and aunt are listening outside.
They must suspect
this marriage is only for show.
Come here.
Can I stay here for now?
Slip upstairs later?
Sleep here tonight.
If you leave,
people will start to doubt.
Close the window.
All right.
What's going on?
They've shut the window.
That's not right.
Overnight,
she finds a man
willing to marry into her house?
Something's off.
Give me the candle.
Come closer.
Turn around.
Closer still.
They're consummating the marriage.
Consummating it right there,
in the main hall!
Your clothes are soaked through
with sweat.
Go change into something dry.
Take off my clothes.
Help me lie down.
Don't move.
Honey, look.
Just like the drawings in that book.
Stop staring at that book!
That shameless Fan Changyu.
Blow out the candle.
Honey, the light's gone.
Nothing left to see.
Let's go.
Wait.
I have a feeling
this isn't what it looks like.
Where are you going?
I'll climb over again.
Take a proper look.
Damn stray cat!
Back again stealing my meat?
That's no cat.
Who's out there?
So it really is some beast.
Shameless thing.
Sneaking around at midnight
to steal from me.
Don't let me catch you next time.
I won't spare you!
Do you think she really consummated it?
Then… Then we should leave.
Or we'll be the ones laid out here.
Quick, go.
Much obliged.
FAN'S PORK STALL
-Just this piece?
-That one.
See? Full weight.
-Come again.
-Of course.
Care for some braised pork?
-That one.
-Pig ear.
One jin. Here you go.
Thank you.
-Nice balance of fat and lean, isn't it?
-Perfect.
Thank you, madam.
Madam, some pork.
Coming.
Two jin?
That'll do.
PORK SHANK, PIG HEAD MEAT
SPICES, PORK BELLY
Not bad at all.
Sold out already.
Mrs. Yin.
Changyu.
You've just married
and you're working already?
You should take a break.
Got to earn more silver.
The sooner I rebuild my parents' pig pens,
the better.
True enough. Another mouth to feed now.
You'll have to work harder.
Your live-in husband…
How was he last night?
He's fine. Eats well, sleeps well.
His wounds are healing.
That's not what I meant.
Having children is no small matter.
He's tall and broad-shouldered.
Should be up to the task, right?
-What are you saying?
-Look at you.
I have no idea what you mean.
-You know exactly what I mean.
-Keep moving.
There are so many of them.
They're arresting people again.
What's happening?
What now?
Rounding up refugees from Chongzhou again.
Mrs. Yin, help me mind the stall.
I'll be back shortly.
Where are you going?
YAMEN
All sorted.
Keep it safe.
Thank you, Mr. Wang.
Come here a moment.
What is it?
-This is something for your trouble.
-What trouble?
You're lawfully married.
There's nothing improper here.
Don't treat me like a stranger.
-Thank you, Mr. Wang.
-Think nothing of it.
It's cold. Go on home.
LUO'S PAWNSHOP
Sold. Already sold.
You sold it?
How could you sell it?
I pawned it as a live pledge.
Look at the pawn ticket.
It is a live pledge.
But it clearly states,
"If not redeemed within ten days,
it converts to forfeiture."
See here. Your thumbprint.
Who could even see that tiny line?
And even if I saw it, I couldn't read!
Mrs. Fan, if you pawn goods,
must I also teach you your letters?
You tricked me!
We followed the contract exactly.
Strange thing.
It's a plain silver hairpin.
That young gentleman wanted it.
Now you want it back.
What's so special about it?
What young gentleman? Where did he go?
-Customer matters are not for--
-Tell me!
It was the only thing
my parents left me.
Just a young man.
I truly do not know who he was.
How much did you sell it for?
Twenty taels.
You sold it
simply because he offered more?
We have the pawn ticket as proof.
Take it to the county yamen if you like.
I'm not afraid.
Changyu. What are you doing here?
What's gotten into her today?
No idea.
Changyu.
Father. The sugar I hid got eaten by ants.
All right, stop crying.
I've got a plan.
Look.
Now the ants can't reach it.
Father, you're amazing.
Can you hide the rest for me too?
You little fox.
I knew you still had more stashed away.
Don't tell your mother.
She'll scold both of us.
I won't, Father.
Go pull me a blade of grass.
Here.
That way,
we won't forget where it is.
Father, you're the best.
Look at you.
Remember this.
Every hurdle can be crossed.
Tears may fall,
but life goes on.
If the sky collapses,
someone taller will hold it up.
No matter what happens,
we eat well and sleep well.
Yes, Father.
Good girl.
Thank you.
Much obliged. Until next time.
Until next time.
I'm off.
Careful there.
Madam Song.
Moving into a big house in the city now?
What fortune.
The magistrate favors us.
My Yan has done well.
Next year, he may even place first
in all three exams.
Bring glory to our town.
He will surely pass.
Then I'll take your blessing to heart.
Madam Song,
Song Yan is about to become
the magistrate's son-in-law.
That promise you made about
my eldest grandson, lifting his labor duty
and arranging a yamen post for him,
when will that be fulfilled?
And the matter of spreading word
that Fan Changyu is a calamity star,
I made sure the whole village heard it.
Absurd.
When did I ever ask you?
No, no, I meant nothing.
You may rest assured.
When the chance comes,
I'll have Yan speak to the magistrate.
Good, good.
Fan Changyu, wait.
Stand right there!
Every hurdle can be crossed.
If the sky collapses,
someone taller will hold it up.
We've been neighbors for years.
Who knows when we'll meet again.
This is a small token.
Please accept it.
And return the betrothal letter.
Indeed.
You've already taken a husband.
Why keep that letter?
That's it?
How much do you claim our family owes you?
And when did this even happen?
Who witnessed it?
Exactly.
With no proof, who would believe you?
If they truly owed you,
wouldn't you have pressed them years ago?
Who shows charity for over a decade
without expecting repayment?
You'd be a living bodhisattva.
Enough.
Take the silver. It should cover it.
Return the letter.
Look at her.
Even this much is not enough.
Fan Changyu.
Greedy to the bone.
You'd sell your soul for a coin.
Unbelievable.
Make way. Make way, please.
You're all bullying my sister.
My brother-in-law is here to back her up.
Who's that?
That's Changyu's husband.
Him?
And he's lame?
Your wounds are still fresh.
You can hardly walk.
How can you go running off with her?
It's nothing.
Even injured,
I can still come take my wife home.
This is between the Songs and the Fans.
What concern is it of yours?
I bear the Fan name now.
You want proof of debt?
Very well.
Let's settle the Songs' account
with the Fans first
before you move away.
One coffin, six taels and twenty mace.
Twelve chi of fine cloth,
one tael and ten mace.
Thirty baskets of eggs,
one tael and fifty mace.
Three years of tuition,
nine taels and sixty mace.
That broke scholar Song Yan studied
only because the Fans supported him.
And once he passed the provincial exam,
before Erniu and Lihua
were even laid to rest,
he forced Changyu
to cancel the engagement.
Even Madam Song's food and clothing
came from the Fan household.
-Where did they find the nerve?
-Exactly.
Mr. Zhao, what were the expenses?
Three years of tuition
for that ungrateful Song Yan.
Three taels and twenty mace a year.
You figure out what that comes to
in three years.
Nine taels and sixty mace in total.
Not a small sum.
And the pork
he collected during festivals.
At least 20 cuts.
Over two taels' worth.
And when he fell ill the year before last,
the medicine alone cost over one tael.
Fan Erniu paid it.
Never even told Lihua or Changyu.
It only makes you angrier.
Even the woman's monthly…
Four bundles of bamboo baskets.
Thirty bundles of firewood.
Five barrels of lamp oil.
Three copper basins.
One bamboo mat.
And…
Mind the ditch, Ning. Come back.
Four bundles of menstrual cloth.
-Menstrual cloth?
-They borrowed that too?
And last Dragon Boat Festival,
Madam Song visited us
and left with a braised pig tail.
Add it all together,
the Fan family
practically raised Madam Song and her son!
Kang, how much did you gain
from defending the Song family
so fiercely?
Don't slander me.
I took nothing.
I'm just like everyone else here.
I'm just passing by.
I took nothing. Honestly.
You, a grown man,
speaking so freely
of women's private matters.
You have no shame!
Menstruation is the root of life.
The source of all mothers.
Why should it not be spoken of?
You may not speak of it,
but you were quick enough to take it.
Yes, and by the bundle.
If it lasts half a month each time,
perhaps you should see a physician!
Go see one.
Mind your own business!
Stop laughing!
Go get yourself treated!
What business is it of yours?
What's so funny?
Mind your own business!
Ladies, please refrain from harsh words.
You underestimate
Mr. and Mrs. Fan's kindness
toward me.
They have passed on.
They deserve no further gossip.
Changyu,
though you speak harshly to me,
I do not blame you.
I understand your hasty marriage
is in part because of me.
From now on,
you go your way, I'll go mine.
But if you ever face hardship,
send word to my residence.
-I will always be your friend.
-Pah!
Spare me your noble posturing.
If not for me,
would my parents have treated you so well?
It's my own fault.
I was blind and foolish,
unlucky enough to fall for a snake
in scholar's robes.
-You…
-Repay the money. Now!
-Yes, repay it.
-Repay what you owe!
Very well.
You owe it, you pay it.
When gentlemen part,
they do not trade insults.
I will repay.
Round it off. 30 taels in total.
If you doubt me, do the sums yourself.
Mother. Pay her.
We don't have that much silver.
If it's short,
write a note of debt.
There's no brush or ink here.
-I'll send it once we're in the city.
-No need.
Bite your finger
and press a thumbprint.
Yes, press your thumb.
-Press your thumb.
-Hurry.
Absolutely not. Don't listen to them.
We can…
-You mustn't!
-Hold.
It's only a few dozen taels.
I'll settle it for him.
DAUGHTER OF MAGISTRATE CUI
Ms. Cui.
How could we trouble you
to grace this humble place?
Song Yan is my father's student.
Helping him is only proper.
A scholar of the imperial court
should not be haggled over
by someone who reeks of copper coins.
Some people are born to fortune.
Like me.
My father named me Qianjin.
A thousand pieces of gold.
It was decided from birth
that I would never lack silver,
with servants at my call.
Others are born to misfortune.
Like you.
Orphaned young.
With no one to rely on.
Jade may be pretty,
but it will never match gold for value.
Here. 50 taels.
Pick it up.
That's enough, Changning.
We don't take what's not ours.
The betrothal letter was left beneath
the stone outside your gate long ago.
Mother.
It ended between us long ago.
That extra silver covers the interest.
After all, your pride
isn't worth much.
What is owed to me, I will take.
What is not, I will not.
And besides,
he isn't worth much.
Wait. I'm not done.
-Come back! How rude.
-Yan.
Yan, help me lift it.
Quickly.
Whoever helps
gets the silver on the ground.
All right. Come on.
Finally.
Finally found it.
I'll rip it.
Ning, go home with Zheng.
He's only a provincial graduate.
Across the capital and 17 prefectures,
how many graduates are made each year?
What is one Song Yan?
If you must say such things,
say them only in front of me.
Not before others.
They will laugh.
Laugh?
What would they laugh at?
They would laugh
that you hold no degree at all.
I know you're trying to comfort me.
I'm not.
A provincial graduate?
Even a palace graduate
is nothing special.
Look at you acting like a grand official.
-I…
-You're smart.
You've got nice handwriting.
Why not study and sit
for the examinations?
If you pass,
you could hold office.
My ambitions do not lie in court.
That's a pity.
I was hoping you'd become
some grand official
and find a way to trip up Song Yan.
All right.
What is it?
I'm not upset
over Song Yan.
It's my mother's hairpin. I lost it.
-That hairpin--
-I've failed my parents.
I pawned it as a live pledge.
Wouldn't you know it,
the crooked pawnbroker
sold it to some half-wit.
That ridiculous man paid 20 taels for it.
Twenty taels!
With that kind of silver,
I could carve out three of him.
Some people seem to live
just to make others miserable.
How did you get this?
That buyer…
You were the one who paid 20 taels?
In a manner of speaking.
I got you back.
Wait.
That crooked shopkeeper
cheated you out of 20 taels!
I'll get the money back.
In truth, the buyer
is the owner of a bookshop.
He bought the hairpin for 20 taels.
He appreciated my essays.
When he sent silver as reward,
he returned this hairpin as well.
That's quite a coincidence.
Indeed.
Here is the silver.
You earned that much from essays?
Yes. Mr. Zhao can confirm.
Where is this bookshop?
I'll return the silver to him.
No need.
He is wealthy.
Twenty taels means little to him.
At least I should thank him.
Naturally.
Once my injuries are healed,
I'll take you to call on him.
All right.
Still,
you need not sell essays
to support the household.
I told you.
I can slaughter pigs and feed you.
SPIRIT TABLET OF MENG LIHUA
SPIRIT TABLET OF FAN ERNIU
Mother,
I've found the hairpin.
All this time, I was afraid.
Afraid I'd done wrong.
Afraid you would disapprove.
Afraid you'd be upset.
Now that it has come back to me,
it must be you watching over us.
Only then can I set my heart at ease.
Let me help you.
HEJIAN LUYUAN ACADEMY
An, I've got a chicken drumstick here.
Care for a bite?
I…
I do not eat drumsticks.
I've got a big one.
Look at this.
That is highly inappropriate.
This is a hall of refined learning.
How can you sit here gnawing on meat?
What if the headmaster sees?
You foolish bird.
Every time you arrive, you lose your way.
All right, all right.
Wait here. I'll return shortly.
Today's copying punishment
is deemed complete.
You may all return.
Many thanks, Headmaster.
An, thank the headmaster.
Many thanks, Headmaster Gongsun.
Recovering from injury
at the Fan house in Lin'an.
Bring my registration and travel papers.
You rogue, Xie Jiuheng.
I knew you would not fall so easily.
‎NO ANIMALS WERE HARMED
‎IN THE MAKING OF THIS EPISODE
Subtitle translation by: Jiaxin Wang